README.adoc, before:

= Online jOOQ REPL

== Quickstart with Docker Compose

Clone this directory to a machine that has Docker installed & running and 
run this command in the project's root directory:

----
docker-compose up 
----

(when you're running this for the first time, it may take a while while
Docker and Gradle download all the dependencies)

Then, point your browser to http://localhost:8000/ and try executing some
queries. Try `jooq.selectFrom(FILM).fetch()` for example. Take a look at
https://dev.mysql.com/doc/sakila/en/sakila-structure.html[the Sakila schema]
to get more ideas about queries to try. Look up 
https://www.jooq.org/doc/latest/manual-single-page[jOOQ's documentation] if
you can't get a query to work.

You can also try playing with the `docker-compose.yaml` file if you want to
add additional RDBMS engines - MySQL should be simple. As for supporting
database schemas other than Sakila, you will have to provide your own jOOQ
model (imports will also not work for your model yet unless you modify some
trivial source code - I'll probably make this easier in the near future
because I need it as well..).

Note that if you can't get your changes to show up despite restarting
docker-compose, the nuclear approach seems to be `docker-compose up -V 
--build`.



== Defining the available databases

The application must be told about the databases at its disposal using
environment variables. On startup, the application will look for any 
environment variables of the form `DATABASE_<unique_database_key>_URL` (where
`unique_database_key` is any valid environment variable name).

This property must contain a connection string that can be used by JDBC. In
addition to it several more properties can be defined using the same prefix
but replacing `URL` with:

DESCRIPTION:: the text to be shown for this connection on the user interface
USER:: the username to use when connecting to this database
PASSWORD:: the password to use when connecting to this database

For example, to define a database using the key 'OLD_POSTGRES' one could use
environment variables named `DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_DESCRIPTION`, 
`DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_URL`, `DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_USER` and
`DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.

Commit message:

Document a DSLContext being available to scripts

README.adoc, after:

= Online jOOQ REPL

== Quickstart with Docker Compose

Clone this directory to a machine that has Docker installed & running and 
run this command in the project's root directory:

----
docker-compose up 
----

(when you're running this for the first time, it may take a while while
Docker and Gradle download all the dependencies)

Then, point your browser to http://localhost:8000/ and try executing some
queries. Try `jooq.selectFrom(FILM).fetch()` for example. Take a look at
https://dev.mysql.com/doc/sakila/en/sakila-structure.html[the Sakila schema]
to get more ideas about queries to try. Look up 
https://www.jooq.org/doc/latest/manual-single-page[jOOQ's documentation] if
you can't get a query to work.

You can also try playing with the `docker-compose.yaml` file if you want to
add additional RDBMS engines - MySQL should be simple. As for supporting
database schemas other than Sakila, you will have to provide your own jOOQ
model (imports will also not work for your model yet unless you modify some
trivial source code - I'll probably make this easier in the near future
because I need it as well..).

Note that if you can't get your changes to show up despite restarting
docker-compose, the nuclear approach seems to be `docker-compose up -V 
--build`.



== The web executor

The web executor accepts Java scripts and makes it easy to run jOOQ scripts
on them. A `jooq` variable is available for use that contains a connected
https://www.jooq.org/doc/3.11/manual/sql-building/dsl-context[DSLContext].


=== Defining the available databases

The application must be told about the databases at its disposal using
environment variables. On startup, the application will look for any 
environment variables of the form `DATABASE_<unique_database_key>_URL` (where
`unique_database_key` is any valid environment variable name).

This property must contain a connection string that can be used by JDBC. In
addition to it several more properties can be defined using the same prefix
but replacing `URL` with:

DESCRIPTION:: the text to be shown for this connection on the user interface
USER:: the username to use when connecting to this database
PASSWORD:: the password to use when connecting to this database

For example, to define a database using the key 'OLD_POSTGRES' one could use
environment variables named `DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_DESCRIPTION`, 
`DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_URL`, `DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_USER` and
`DATABASE_OLD_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.
